# CU_Portfolio
__Portfolio for Cairn University Bachelor's in Computer Science__ 
* __Student:__ Stephanie Tea
* __Graduation Date:__ 05/2021

### [CIS121 Writing Sample (Virtual Reality Paper](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/CU_Portfolio/blob/86a84a430c3e21a7d1a0dc741591a12bc741106e/CIS121%20Paper%20(VR).pdf)
I chose this assignment to highlight my communication skills because over five pages, I discuss the benefits and drawbacks of using a piece of popular technology. First, I discuss how virtual reality can be used for entertainment, education, therapy and tourism. Instead of avoiding historical sites or museums due to a lack of money, people can use virtual reality to see it for themselves. Then, I discuss how people can also receive training or healing through virtual reality. After I discuss the advantages of using virtual reality, I discuss the disadvantages which include an increase in isolation and escapism, and deterioration in relationships. Lastly, even though this is one of the first papers I did for my computer science classes, it was also an assignment where I was able to conduct research on a subject I was passionate about and learn new things about it. 

### [CIS431 Database Project (Menu Tables - Eden's Bistro)](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/Edens-Bistro/tree/master/sql)
The goal of this project was to create a fully functional website for a fictional restaurant. My role was to create a menu page for this restaurant and in order to do so, I needed to create a database table that stored the menu items and their corresponding details. I actually needed to create two tables. One table included the item, price, description, category, and whether that item was available for takeout. The other table included which category the item belonged to. For instance, there was a breakfast category, appetizer category, and dinner category. I used a foreign key reference in the first table that linked to the item category in the second table. As a result, I was able to display items that met a certain category and keep the menu as clean and uncluttered as possible. This also helped with filtering and sorting items in a way that was helpful and easily accessible to the customer as well.

### [CIS241 Project Summary (Assembling a PC)](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/CU_Portfolio/blob/86a84a430c3e21a7d1a0dc741591a12bc741106e/CIS241%20Assembling%20a%20PC%20Project%20Summary.pdf)
In this project summary, I discussed how to assemble a PC. It was written from the perspective of a company who needed to create a computer from scratch for a new employee and it included what kind of equipment you would want, how to set up the equipment, and how to stay safe while assembling the PC. It is very important to understand how PCs work and how to stay safe while fixing and assembling PCs because if you don't know what you are doing, you can damage the PC and  bring harm to yourself as well. The concepts that I discuss in this project summary are related to assembling a PC but they can also be related to other electronics and computer issues, which is why I chose it for my portfolio. 

### [CIS321 Final Project (Code)](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/CU_Portfolio/blob/e3771ec1af8b7507ae0d66104580f8c7d5b62bbb/CIS321FinalProject.ino)
The goal of this project was to get the current level of moisture in some soil and then turn a fan on or off based on data. It demonstrated the process of turning animal manure into fertilizer which could be used on the crops so that they would grow faster and more efficiently. The hardware I needed to build was something that could get input from the soil and then display that data on an LCD screen. The software part of this project included analyzing that data and figuring out what the best course of action should be as a result, such as turning the fan on or off. This is important in the field of farming because if the manure gets too dry, the process won't work. In order for the fertilizer process to work, the fan needs to be turned on in intervals, because if it were on the whole time, the soil or manure would dry out and not be effective. (See schematic [here)](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/CU_Portfolio/blob/a5b03d5718fd2fe2c43a4344876b5db46d4da73a/CIS321%20Final%20Project.png).

### [HTML/CSS/JS Project (Menu Page - Eden's Bistro)](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/Edens-Bistro/blob/4db2b346da5ab56a065a4d92c08e688996871a79/menu.php)
I am using my website application from my Web Applications class because I learned a lot about what goes into a website and how much effort goes into what we see. I worked on many different areas of the website and gave my input for different design decisions, but I mostly worked on the menu section of the website. My page was designed in a way that when users clicked on different menu categories, they would only be able to see items that corresponded and could even add certain items to a take-out bag to order later. In addition, when they clicked on different items, they would be able to see more details about the item, such as the ingredients that were in it. Lastly, we also included a server side that was protected from SQL injections and was secure so that people wouldn’t be able to inject code into our site and use it for bad purposes. I think this project and my part of the project really shows how much I understand the fundamentals of programming because it is a responsive and coherent design. Everything flows and does what you think it should do. Even if there were no instructions, a user would still be able to figure out what certain links or buttons do. We all had the same design scheme and worked together, which is how the website was able to look consistent across every page and easily respond to the user and what they needed.

### [Python Project (File System)](https://github.com/stephaniemtea/CU_Portfolio/blob/472e33ba51396e60ae77e706e8cd48d0d5b23518/verySimpleFileSystem.py)
I am using my file system project which I wrote in python with a group. We created a file class that had many different commands that allowed a user to create, open, update, delete, or see all the files. These commands were then called in the console in order to illustrate methods that you might want to use in an actual file system. We even included a way to handle regular users and administrators so that you weren’t able to delete or update files unless you were an administrator. This was important because in some operating systems, there isn’t a way to handle or manage file permissions and access. Lastly, we also included a help command so that a user could see all the different commands in case they didn’t know what to do. As soon as the program started, the user would see the welcome message and the help command and they would be able to create and manage their file system right away. 

